## Spring Basics

1. **Why Spring**
2. **What is Spring**
3. **Problems with Traditional Java EE**
4. **Spring Modules overview**


## **1. Why Spring?**
*   #### `Spring was created to solve problems of traditional Java EE development and make building enterprise applications simpler, loosely coupled, and easier to maintain.`

    #### **1. Simpler:**
    * **Less code + less complexity.**
    * **Example:**
        `Without Spring we write a lot of configuration and object-creation code. Spring automates many things, so development becomes simpler.`

    #### **2. Loosely Coupled:**
    * **Classes are less dependent on each other.**
        * **Tightly Coupled Example:**
            ```java
            class Car {
                Engine engine = new PetrolEngine();
            }
            ```
            **Problem:** 
            `If you want DieselEngine, you must change the code.`
             ```java
            class Car {
                Engine engine = new DieselEngine();
            }
            ```
            `So Car is dependent on PetrolEngine.`
        <br><br>
        * **Loosely Coupled Example:**
            ```java
            class Car {
                Engine engine;

                Car(Engine engine){
                    this.engine = engine;
                }
            }
            ```
            `Now Car does not know which engine it gets.`
            - We have to order Spring to inject whichever object we want using `@Qualifier()`:
                - PetrolEngine
                - DieselEngine
                - ElectricEngine

    #### **3. Easier to Maintain:**
    * **Code becomes easier to update and modify later.**
    * **Example:**
            `If the Engine implementation changes (PetrolEngine → ElectricEngine), we don't need to modify the Car class when using loose coupling.`

    #### **Key Idea**
    * `Tightly Coupled → Class creates its own dependency`
    * `Loosely Coupled → Dependency is provided from outside (Spring using Dependency Injection)`

<br>

## **2. What is Spring?**
* **Spring is a Java framework used to build enterprise applications easily.**

    ### **👉 What is spring-starter?**
    * `Instead of adding many individual dependencies, we add one starter dependency, and it automatically includes the required libraries.`
    <br><br>
    * **Example:** `spring-boot-starter-web`
        * **This single dependency automatically includes:**
            - spring-core
            - spring-context
            - Spring MVC
            - Jackson
            - Validation
            - Embedded Tomcat
            - Other required libraries

<br>

## **3. Problems with Traditional Java EE**

1. Tight coupling between components
2. Heavy frameworks like EJB (Enterprise Java Beans)
3. Too much XML configuration
4. Difficult unit testing
5. Hard to maintain large applications

<br>



## **4. Spring Modules Overview**
Spring Framework is divided into **several major modules**, each responsible for a specific functionality.  
Developers can use **only the modules they need**.


* ### 1️⃣ Core Container
    *   This is the **foundation of the Spring Framework**.  
    *   It provides **Dependency Injection (DI)** and manages application objects (Beans).

    ### Submodules
    *   #### **spring-core**
        * Provides the **core utilities of the framework**.
        * Includes basic features like **IoC and Dependency Injection support**.

    *   #### **spring-beans**
        * Responsible for **creating and managing Spring Beans**.
        * Handles **bean configuration and lifecycle**.

    *   #### **spring-context**
        * Builds on top of core and beans modules.
        * Provides the **ApplicationContext container**, which is used to access beans and resources.

    *   #### **spring-expression (SpEL)**
        * Provides the **Spring Expression Language**.
        * Used to evaluate expressions in configuration and annotations.

* ### 2️⃣ AOP and Instrumentation
    *   Provides support for **Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP)**.  
    *   Helps separate **cross-cutting concerns** like logging, security, and transactions.

    ### Submodules
    *   #### **spring-aop**
        * Provides **AOP functionality** in Spring.
        * Allows developers to apply logic like logging or security without modifying business code.

    *   #### **spring-aspects**
        * Provides **integration with AspectJ**, a powerful AOP framework.

    *   #### **spring-instrument**
        * Provides **class instrumentation support**.
        * Used for advanced features like **load-time weaving**.


* ### 3️⃣ Data Access / Integration
    *   Provides support for **database access and transaction management**.
    *   Helps integrate Spring with different persistence technologies.

    ### Submodules
    *   #### **spring-jdbc**
        * Simplifies **JDBC database operations**.
        * Reduces boilerplate code required in traditional JDBC.

    *   #### **spring-tx**
        * Provides **transaction management** for database operations.

    *   #### **spring-orm**
        * Integrates Spring with **ORM frameworks** like Hibernate and JPA.

    *   #### **spring-jms**
        * Provides support for **Java Messaging Service (JMS)**.


* ### 4️⃣ Web Layer
    *   Used to build **web applications and REST APIs**.
    *   Provides support for **web-based architectures like MVC**.

    ### Submodules
    *   #### **spring-web**
        * Provides basic **web integration features**.
        * Includes utilities for handling **web requests and REST services**.

    *   #### **spring-webmvc**
        * Implements the **Spring MVC framework**.
        * Used to build **web applications following the Model-View-Controller pattern**.

    *   #### **spring-websocket**
        * Provides support for **WebSocket-based real-time communication**.

